All right, well,
this is the part of the course
where we create users and this is gonna be
a fairly large part of the course
'cause we're going to be rolling
absolutely everything from scratch.
There's not gonna be no built-in helpers
that are coming along with this.
It's going to be absolutely from scratch.
So we're gonna be doing creating users.
We're gonna be doing hashing passwords, storing passwords.
we're going to be doing the front end part,
which is signing the user in,
signing the user up,
signing the user out.
All of that good stuff associated with a user
and a permissions system.
So let's get into it.
This video's gonna be just the back end portion of things
and then, we're gonna flip over in the next video
to the front end, which is actually allowing people
to sign up.
So the first thing we need to do is edit our data model
to allow for this new type of user.
We've created it here,
but we need to extend it a little bit more.
So, we have our ID which is a unique,
we have our name which is a string,
and we have our email which is a string.
We're also going to add the unique decorator
to the email address
'cause you don't want people signing up
for multiple accounts with the same email address.
Additionally on there, we need a password,
which is going to be a string,
it's going to be a hashed string,
so we're not actually going to store their password.
We'll talk a little bit more about that.
We will also think ahead and add a reset token,
which is a string not required, or anything.
We have a reset token expiry,
which is a string.
So someone's gonna ask to reset their password
and we're gonna set a token on there that's good for,
I don't know, an hour, two hours a day,
however long you want to do it.
And then finally, we're going to add permissions
to this user service site.
Permissions, and this is going to be an array of a new type
that we're going to make, called a permission.
And, let's talk about this real quick here.
So, permission is going to be its new type,
however, instead of just willy-nilly adding strings to it,
permission is going to be what is called an enum.
So if we go up to the top here,
let's go ahead and define this enum.
So, enum permission.
And in that enum, we're going to list all
of the possible options, so in GraphQL,
an enum is very helpful for when you want to have
a preset list of possible options for a type.
So, in our case, we're going to have a admin,
a user and then a number of other permissions
that you may have and it's great
because we're not going to elsewhere maintain
a list of the possible permissions,
we're going to do it directly in GraphQL.
So, one of the possible permissions is going to be an admin,
one else is going to be a user,
and I'm going to add a few more, here,
there's ITEMCREATE, ITEMUPDATE, ITEMDELETE
and PERMISSIONUPDATE which is going to be
sort of a circular one where if you only if you are an admin
or if you have the PERMISSIONUPDATE permission
will you be able to update that.
So, what we're doing here, is we're saying the permissions
of the user is going to be one or many of these.
And these are the only possible options.
You can't have somebody come in there,
making a super admin or a bomb,
or something like that where they just made them up.
It is only available as these possible options.
Good, so now what to we do?
After anytime you edit your data model,
we have to go back to our command line and re-deploy this
because we've made changes to what our data looks like
and we need our prisma database to know about that
and to pull down our latest schema.
So, let's go over to our hyperterm here
and I'm going to go into the back end
and we run npm run deploy.
So, I'm getting an error here that says,
you are creating a required field
but there are already note present
that would violate that constraint.
So, I'm willing to bet that's because we've added
a password field that is required
and there's already users in there.
So, what we can do is we can open up
our Prisma console and we can just clear out any
existing users that we may have created.
Another option is you can pass the dash dash force flag,
but I don't recommend doing that,
just because then you get into this weird issue
where sometimes your GraphQL query says it's required,
but the data being returned is not there
and then that will give you errors in your application.
It's best to just actually go back and fix
or delete the data.
So, I'm going to open up my Sick Fits here.
Going to find my users, there we go.
These are the two users that I created via the console.
Let's just go ahead and delete them real quick.
And now if I go ahead and deploy again,
I bet it will work.
There we go!
It tells us all of the different things
that have changed on there.
It said it updated a file, it became unique.
We also created a few and we created an enum
that was permissions.
It has deployed it there for us.
So, good.
That's our first step we need to do.
We need to modify our data model to get it up and running.
The next thing we need to do is creating a mew mutation
in our schema.
So open up your schema
and we will create a new one called signup
and that will take in an email,
which is a string that's required.
It will take in a password,
which is a string that is required.
And it will take in a name,
And from that, it will return a user
that is going to be required.
So, every single time that you sign up,
we are going to take in those three things
and return a new type of user.
And where does that type of user come from?
It's nowhere in this file,
but because we have imported everything
from our prisma.graphql,
we will have our type user of this type
and it'll return this shape of data.
So that should be it for our signup mutation.
Now every time that you add something to your schema
that is a mutation or a query,
you need to go and code what?
You need to code the corresponding resolver.
So, open up our mutation.js
and we've got our created item,
we've got our updated item,
we have our delete item resolver.
Now we're going to create our signup resolver.
Before we actually even create our user,
we actually need to modify our yoga server to allow
for us to work with cookies.
Now, you might be saying, Wes, why are we using cookies?
What is that for?
Well, what's gonna happen with our,
when we created a user
is that we are going to set a cookie
with the currently logged-in user.
And then every single time that someone requests a page,
the cookie is going to send along something called
a JWT, the JSON web token,
and that JSON web token is kind of like
if you've ever worked with sessions before,
kinda similar to that.
It's gonna send along this token that's going to allow us
to validate that user is actually a user
and see who's logged in and all that good stuff.
And the reason why we're going to be using cookies in here,
with our JSON web tokens instead of one of the other ways
that you can use JSON web tokens is in local storage
and what you can do is every single time that you have
a request you can pull the local storage JWT out
of local storage and send it along for the ride
and that way your backend will be able
to authenticate the current user before they do anything
like deleting or creating items.
Now, the reason we don't do it in local storage,
and the reason we do do it in cookies in this tutorial
is because we want to be able to do server-side rendering
of the logged-in parts.
And the down side to local storage in this case,
is that local storage doesn't automatically
send that token along.
So, if I just go to this page here,
and I were to refresh it,
then it wouldn't server render any of the logged-in parts.
So maybe I have a cart that needs to be rendered
on the server, and then that leaves this little kind
of like one or two-second glitch
where it will render the logged-out view
'cause it has no concept of someone being logged in,
and then it will re-render it on the server
because it realizes that you have a local storage JWT.
So, by putting the JWT in our cookie,
what that's going to do is,
it's going to send along the JWT every single request
and we're gonna be able to server render
the authenticated user, which is great.
So, we will go into our index.js
and remember that we talked about this index.js
is express and we're simply going to use a middleware
that's going to expose some helper functions
for working with cookies.
So, we'll go up here, right at the top
and we'll say const cookieParser
is equal to require cookie-parser.
And then right below where we create our server,
so right here, TODO express middleware
to handle cookies and TODO use express middleware
to populate current user,
we're going to do the first one right now.
Server.express.use, and what this will do
is it allows us to use any existing express middleware.
So, if you have taken my Node course,
you'll know that we have used lots of middlewares in there.
If you haven't ever used Express before,
let me explain it real quick.
A middleware is a function that will run in the middle
between your request and your response.
The way that a server works is that you get a request,
and then you send out a response.
So you might get a request for like, /dogs.html
and then you response might return an array of dogs, right?
And in between, you might wanna do some sort of work.
You might want to authenticate the user,
you might want to transform the dogs,
You might want to local translate the dogs' names.
Anything that you wanna do in between the initial request
and the final response to the user in the browser,
that's what middleware does.
And what we're going to be doing
is we gonna be accepting the request,
and then parsing any cookies that came along
with the request so that we can parse that JWT
and be able to authenticate the current user.
So, let's get rid of all this dog nonsense here.
We have the server.express.use and we'll simply
just pass it an instance of cookieParser.
Make sure you put parentheses on that so you run it
and that's going to allow us to access all of the cookies
in a nice formatted object rather than just a cookie string
that it normally comes in as a header.
So, we're done with that one, and we'll leave this TODO
right here for the next one.
Then we'll flip back over to our mutatuion.js
and start writing the resolver for that specific mutation.
So, let's write our little signature first
and async function that is called signup
and the reason that it's called signup
is because that it has to match up
with the name of the mutation in our schema
and that signup will take a couple arguments.
The parent, the args, the context and the info.
Now there's a whole bunch of things
that we need to do in here.
So let's get into it.
First thing we need to do, and this is something
that bit me before is that sometimes people
will sign up with,
they will type their email address like this
and I ran into a big issue previously where people
were not able to sign in because they had signed up
with the capitals and they were trying
to sign in not with a capital,
so I will always lowercase the email address as it comes in.
So we'll say args.email
is equal to args.email.toLowerCase.
And we'll put a little comment lowercase their email,
I'm not sure if that really needs a comment,
but we did it, who cares.
Then what we need to do is hash their password
because for what they're going to be sending,
we're going to get, this args is gonna have a password
on it and it's going to be args.password
is equal to dogs123,
that's the user's password.
But you cannot put the user's password into the database
because if that database were to ever be breached
or accessed by someone who shouldn't have access to it
or even someone who is working on the database,
I would never want to know what your password is.
So you don't actually want to store your user's password
in the database, you want to store what's called a hash.
A one-way hash and the way that the one-way hash
is going to work is that you'll take in a string
like dogs123, allow me to use
just a stupid little example here,
and we're not gonna store dogs123 in the database,
we're going to hash it and what that's going to return
is something that looks like this.
Now the next time that you come along and try to sign in,
what we're going to do is you're going to type in
your password dogs123
and we're going to hash it again
and we're going to check
if that's equal to what we initially stored on the end.
And if the hash of your password is equal to what we have
stored on database, then we're going to say
okay, that must be correct, then let's go ahead
and log you in and give you access
to everything that you have.
However, if you were to type your password incorrectly,
like dogs12, that's going to give you a totally different
hash that looks something like this
and these two things look nothing alike
and they're not going to be access.
They're not going to be accessible
The important thing is that you cannot reverse these hashes
so if anyone were ever to get access
to these hashes, they would not be able to turn them back
into passwords, which is really, really nice.
So, let's get rid of all these examples here.
We're going to be using a package in Node called bcrypt
and it's sort of the standard for hashing passwords,
so we'll go up to the top here and we will import that.
So we'll say const bcrypt
equals required bcryptjs and then we'll go back down here
and we'll say const password is equal to await
because bcrypt is an asyncronus function
bcrypt.hash and then you pass it the password
that the user has brought in,
so args.password and then you go ahead
and you either give it something called a salt
or you give it the length of a salt
for it to generate to you.
So were going to pass a salt length of 10.
And what a salt does, (laughing) and what a salt does
is that it makes your generation unique
because there are other hashing algorithms
out there, specifically WordPress uses one called MD5.
And if you have dogs123, and you hash that thing,
it's always going to be something like this.
And if some other website also uses MD5 and your password
is dogs123, then it's also going to be that.
But, by salting your password, you're going to be able
to have a unique password generation algorithms
so that even if someone else were to use, decrypt that hash
with that same password, it's going to have
a totally different hash in their database
and that's really nice
because if someone were to ever figure out
what the equivalent of your hash to your password,
like it's well known that there's a list of millions
of well-known MD5 hashes out there and if your,
that hash gets out,
then people can look it up and say,
oh well, that hash was ASDF and it's clear
that their password is just dogs.
So we are going to give it a length of 10
and it will generate a salt for us.
Now, we actually need to create the user in the database,
so we will say const the user is equal to await,
then we take our context to access our database
and we access the mutation on that and the mutation
that we actually wanna access is called createUser
and why is it called createUser?
Well, if we go back to our generated prisma.graphql file,
you'll see that we have a createUser mutation
that takes in some data and returns a user.
So that's the API that we're going to be using.
So, it's .createUser and that takes in an object
where you pass in some data, and before we forget,
make sure that your createUser also passes info
as a second argument so it knows
what data to return to the client.
And inside of this data, we are going to take the args,
we're gonna spread it in, so that's going to give us
something like names: args.name and it's also gonna give us
the email which is args.email
and it's also going to give us the password
which is args.password.
But, by spreading it into the object here,
we're going to do that in one fell swoop,
then we're going to override it
with the password so don't worry that the initial password
is being passed here because we're going to overwrite that
in here by saying password
is equal to password, or you guessed it,
you can just simply pass password.
And then finally, we are going to set the permissions.
And the way that you set a permissions is, I first thought
you could just do something like this
permissions is equal to an array
where you set the user, right?
But because permissions is not just a string field,
but it is reaching out to an external enum,
we have to set it like this, you do curly bracket set
and then you pass it an array with the default permission
that we wanna pass in there.
We gonna set everyone who signs up
is going to be a user and then we can go back
and actually edit those people in just a bit.
Good, now that that user is actually in the database,
we actually need to create a JSON web token
for the user because we wanna make sure
that they, once you've signed up,
you are now signed in.
I kind of like that, when you sign up for an account,
it doesn't ask you to sign in right away
because you just gave it your password,
it should know and it will sign you in.
So, we will create the JWT token for them.
So, to do this, we need to go back up the top
and import another package that's going to allow us
to work with JWT.
So const jwt is equal to require jsonwebtoken
and we'll go back down.
We'll say const token is equal to jwt.sign
and we pass it a userId,
which is going to be the user.is.
So we just went ahead and created that user right here.
And then you also want to pass the second argument of sign
needs to be your app secret.
So, remember we have the variables.env
and we put an APP_SECRET here,
we need to pass that secret to our JSON web token
so it can sign it with something specific
to our application.
So say process.env.APP_SECRET.
Then we set the JWT as a cookie on the response,
because now that the user is signed in,
we need to set a cookie on the response
so that every single time that they click to another page,
that token comes along for the ride.
So, ctx.response.cookie, we're gonna set
the token cookie to be the actual token
that we just created one line earlier.
And then, the cookie always needs a couple options,
so first thing we want to set is httpOnly
and that will make sure that we cannot access this token
via JavaScript, because you could get
a third-party JavaScript on your website,
or you could get a rogue Chrome extension
or anything that has access to the JavaScript on your page.
You do not want your JavaScript being able to access
your cookies in this specific case.
Wwe'll say httpOnly is true and then the maxAge,
how long do we want this cookie to last
and we're going to set it to 1,000 milliseconds
times 60 seconds in a minute times 60 minutes
in an hour times 24 hours in a day
times 365 days in a year.
So that will be a one-year cookie
and you can set that to,
I think it's something like 22 years
or something like that, you can set it to max
which is pretty nifty.
I hate when things sign me out.
Finally, we return the user
to the browser.
We'll say return user, whoa.
Give it save and let's try it out.
That was a lot of code that we just wrote there.
There's probably something wrong with it,
but we'll try it out ourselves.
So the way that we can test this
is that you just double check
that your server's actually running,
so I'm on my backend here, npm run dev
and that's going to open up your playground
on port 4444, you can either visit it at localhost 4444,
or open it up in the playground that you have here.
And if you open up your schema, schema,
you'll see that our new mutation signup is here.
And it takes in those things and it's going to return
these things for us.
So, let's try it ourselves.
We're going to write a mutation called createUser.
And in that, we're going to create,
or we're going to run our signup.
And that takes an email, wesboss@gmail.com.
It takes a name, Wes Boss.
Put these on their own line for my own sanity's sake.
And it takes a password, which is going to be dogs123.
And from that, we are going to return,
let's return obviously the name,
the email, let's return the password
so we can actually see if it got hashed properly
and, let's see the permissions for that.
So, let's go ahead, here we go!
Let's keep this open, as well, clear it out,
because any errors will show up here.
I'm so excited!
It worked!
Wow!
It worked the first time!
Who knew?
Okay, let's look.
Good, we have the signup data that came back,
obviously the name, the email,
there's the password hash that we have,
and then the permissions.
So, if we were now to refresh this page here,
you see that the user is now in our database,
the ID, the name,
oh, I gotta refresh the page,
'cause since I've been on this page we've added new fields,
so I guess the UI needs to update.
There we go!
The password, the, and then the values that we don't have
are set to null.
Good, because we don't need those just yet.
So, wow, I'm surprised it worked the first run.
Really happy about that, so let's get into the next video,
which is actually coding up the front end
so we can do this not via here,
but via our React application.